Any questions on what we've covered
up to this point on what arrays are.
>> So you're saying there is no insert or
push or pop in arrays.
>> The question was, there is no insert or
push or pop and an arrays?
Technically no, not if it's a static
array or a traditional array,
there is no methods on it In fact,
in some of the older languages,
there's not even dot length, right?
You have to pass the length as well as the
pointer to the beginning of the array and
just say, hey, here's my type.
Here's where it starts.
Here's how many I have.
That's why when you look at any C program,
the entry point is an array of strings.
And how many strings they are?
Right, like it it has to tell you how
to interpret these pieces of data.
>> If an array doesn't grow,
does its memory and
size and memory allocation have to be
specified at initialization of the array?
>> Whenever if ,so if you use rust and
you try to use an array,
you will realize right away
that you have to put in a size.
It has to be a specified size and often
you'll see this all over the place that
you have to like tell it its size and
that's the size that it's created.
Now, it can be a variable still, right?
You can still create an array with n as
its size in a lot of these languages but
it still has to be a specified size.
There are also like compiled time arrays
where you actually have to be like
this thing is a 3 it's always a 3,
it is always going to be a 3, right?
There's there's kind of
these different styles.
But nonetheless, an array has to have
its size as part of its allocation.
You can't grow it,
you can reallocate it, meaning you're
going to have to create a new array.
Take your old array, write it into
the new one, you now have a bigger array.
You now have more room but
nonetheless, it is these fixed sizes.
So, the question was, when you're
creating an array in JavaScript,
are you creating something that
has an array underneath the hood?
In some sense?
Yes, you are definitely
create there is an array.
There is a literal array at some point
,there is a memory buffer at some point
underneath the hood, but
we don't see it that way in JavaScript.
And you also don't see it in Java.
Java has this exact same data structure
that they use obviously JavaScript.
Again, there's a bunch of conditions that
are a part of your array that make it
actually a lot more tricky to simply to.
I'm sure they have a turn it into
a map once you have too many items or
once you have too sparse of an array,
I'm sure they have a lot
of algorithms that make it 10
times more complicated than this.
But for the most part it is.
It operates like an array.
I don't wanna give it away.
I don't.
1 more question.
>> I guess how big is the array
then that you instantiate?
So, that is part of optimizing.
So, like in Rust, if I'm not mistaken,
if you create a new vector,
it's gonna create a effectively a memory
buffer with the size 5 underneath.
And so, as you push and pop, it has 5
units for you to be able to play and
now is that efficient?
Well, that's the problem.
How big do you need to create
your underlying buffer to be able
to effectively use that space without
having to re allocate too much or
without not using it?
Right, cuz we could all create
10,000 units and be like, hey, look,
we'll never have to reallocate again.
But if 10,000 units are big units,
you're gonna use a lot of memory,
just to have that in there.
So, it's kind of it's a game people play
and we'll go over these it'll make a lot
more sense once we go over
the data structures that are used.